# NLP for Sentiment 

Analysis and model by Amanda Potter and Adam Roth


# Table of Contents
- [Repo Structure and Directory](#Repo-Structure-and-Directory)
- [Introduction](#Introduction)
- [Goal](#Goal)
- [Data Set](#Data-Set)
- [Definitions](#Definitions)
- [Methodology](#Methodology)
- [Summary of Model](#Summary-of-Model)
- [Conclusions and Recommendations](#Conclusions-and-Recommendations)
    

## Repo Structure and Directory
- [Exploratory Notebooks]()
- [Report Notebook]()
- [Project Presentation]()
- [Data]()
- [src/ directory with project source code]()
- [figures/ directory with project visuals]()
- [References]()
- [Project Conda environment]()

## Introduction
Twitter users generate huge amounts of data every minute.  Much of that data is aimed at a specific brand or product, but using it to detangle what your users really think can be challenging and leave many frustrated customers concerns addressed.  It is also more difficult to amplify positive sentiment if you don't have a way to quickly identify it.  This project will look at a set of tweets aimed at apple or google and create a model that can accurately predict the sentiment in a tweet, weather that is positive, negative, or neutral.  

## Goal
This project will look at a set of tweets aimed at apple or google and create a model that can accurately predict the sentiment in a tweet, weather that is positive, negative, or neutral.   

## Data Set
This project uses the data from https://data.world/crowdflower/brands-and-product-emotions

A cleaned copy of the data is saved in this repo as `data/judge-1377884607_tweet_product_company.csv`.

## Definitions
Tweets:
Text string of up to 140 characters, generally includes abbreviated ‘words’ data was generated before twitter expanded the allowed characters 
Sentiment - is there a positive or negative emotion associated with the tweet?

Polarity:
Scale defining how negative or positive the emotion expressed in tweet, generated from TextBlob dictionary 

    
## Methodology
This project will utilize a supervised classification machine learning algorithm to classify the sentiment in a tweet.
Our final model is a binomial naive Bayes classifier.
    
We are primarily concerned with correctly identifying tweets that negative in their sentiment
    

Our EDA 
    
Full exploratory notebooks can be found in /NLP---Twitter-Sentiment/notebooks/


## Summary of Model 

### Target: Sentiment
Positive, Negative, or Neutral sentiment contained in a tweet.  For the final model, this was reduced to only positive or negative sentiment.

### Features
This model used tokenized tweet text to determine if a tweet expressed positive or negative sentiment 

### Final Model
The final model was a binomial naive bayes classifier with an accuracy of .96


Desktop/FlatIron/Module_4/Project/NLP---Twitter-Sentiment/reports/figures/final model confusion matrix.png



## Conclusions and Recommendations

The dataset used for this project was probably not the best one to use. We had a very large class imbalance, both with product/brand that the tweet was directed at, and the sentiment in the tweet. The other issue with this dataset is the way the sentiment was labelled. This was crowdsourced, and the participants were to determine if a tweet was positive or negative, and then if they saw sentiment they were to identify the product. There are a few problems with this process.
It is unclear how each tweet was defined as positive or negative - it is also unclear how many users had to rate each tweet. We quickly ran a polarity score (this uses a prescored dictionary to determine how positive or negative a phrase is https://planspace.org/20150607-textblob_sentiment/) and many tweets that were rated by users did not align with the polarity score. Because the tweets still contained the product/brand there was likely some bias introduced from the raters based on their own product preference.

"Android maintained its position as the leading mobile operating system worldwide in December 2019, controlling the mobile OS market with a 74.13 percent share. Google Android and Apple iOS jointly possess almost 99 percent of the global market share." - https://www.statista.com/statistics/272698/global-market-share-held-by-mobile-operating-systems-since-2009/

In addition, the tweets appear to have all been generated at a specific event - namely the SXSW festival that takes place in Austin, TX every year. This festival began as a music festival and has since grown to include film and other interactive conferences. Again here we are likely to have some real biases as the tweets appear to be have been generated by a small, non-random group of users.

The dataset used is far too specific to generalize to any other dataset.

    
## Further exploration 

It would be beneficial to explore this model on a different twitter dataset, and apply sentiment polarity analysis to them - in the dataset used here, the polarity scores did not appear to match up with the crowd-sourced sentiment tag. In addition, it would be interesting to see how other models handle this same text data.